unRAID

Requirements:
- 32GB USB Flash Drive
- Ethernet Cable
- Monitor

Download unRAID:
1. Download and unzip unRAID onto a 32GB USB Flash Drive.
2. Open the network.cfg file and add a static IP Address. The IP Address must be outside of your router's DHCP range.
- For example, if the range is 1-249 then set it to something like 192.168.0.250.
3. Set Gateway to the router's gateway. This can be found in the router's settings.
4. Set DNS to 8.8.8.8 which is Google's public DNS. This will allow you to download Apps for unRAID.
5. Plug the USB drive into the NAS.

BIOS:
1. Upon booting up, quickly press F8 or DEL (shown onscreen, whichever the Motherboard requires) to enter the BIOS.
2. Look for SVM Mode and set it to Enabled.
3. Look for IOMMU and set it to Enabled.
4. Look for Boot Options and set the default to the USB Flash Drive.
5. Configure any other options (ie. Fan speeds, Boot, etc.).
6. Save changes and restart.
7. On start-up, unRAID will display the IPv4 address (should be the same as the one set in network.cfg).
8. On a separate PC, enter the IPv4 address.

Setup unRAID:
1. Log in
username: root
password: <set password>

2. Click Main at the top and scroll to bottom to see disks.
3. Set up the array by assigning disks. It's advised to assign at least 1 disk as the Parity drive in case of drive failure.
4. Upon starting the array, it will say that the drive(s) must be formatted.

IMPORTANT: Formatting will wipe the drives clean. Make sure there is nothing important on them.

5. Click Add Pool and create separate pool for the Cache drive. Assign an SSD as the Cache drive.

NOTE: When transferring data, transfer them to the Cache pool. This will be faster than transferring to the array.

Setup Users:
1. Click Users at the top and click Add User.
2. Give the User a username and password (ie. admin). Users must enter these credentials when trying to access the NAS.

Setup Shares:
1. Click Shares at the top and click Add Share.
2. Give the Share a name (ie. Media / TV Shows / Movies).
3. Set Primary Storage to Array. Set Split Level to Manual.
4. Set Export to Yes (hidden) and Security to Private.
5. Set User Access (ie. admin should have Read/Write).

1. Create another Share for the Cache drive.
2. Set Primary Storage to Cache. Set Secondary Storage to Array. Set Split Level to Manual.
3. Set Mover Action to Cache->Array.
4. Set Export to Yes (hidden) and Security to Private.
5. Set User Access (ie. admin should have Read/Write).

Accessing NAS:
1. On the PC, go to File Explorer.
2. Click Computer at the top and click Map Network Drive.
3. Set a drive letter. Add the folder location, which is the NAS IPv4 address followed by the Share name (ie. \\192.168.0.250\Media).
4. Check Connect using different credentials. Click Finish and enter the user's credentials.

Plugins:
1. Click Apps at the top and install the Community Applications Plugin.

If it fails, you will need to set the Gatewau and DNS in the network.cfg file. The Gateway can be found in the router's settings. The DNS can be something such as 8.8.8.8.

Useful Plugins:
- Recycle Bin
- Unassigned Devices
- Unassigned Devices Plus (necessary for Preclear)
- Unassigned Devices Preclear (used for testing new hard drives before use)
- Auto Turbo Write Mode (auto turns on Turbo Write Mode when all disks are spinning, improving write speeds. Turns off when any disks are spun down)
- NUT (Network UPS Tools)
Note: NUT requires USB cable, default settings are fine, Set Shutdown Mode to Time on Battery - 3-5 min, Disable UPS Power after Shutdown - Yes